Now in this section we will apply the validation to the user entries.
We are able to fill this form and we need to make sure the entries are matching to the certain criterias.
Angular has built in validation functionality and we are going to practice that one.
Now let's start with the first requirement.
And the first requirement is this username cannot be now, so the username will be required and as usual
we will start with the test.
So opening the sign up component spec for the validation case, I'm going to add a new described block.
So we have layout, we have interactions and after the interactions I think a new one, this is for
retardation
and our first test is it.
Displays username is required message when username is null.
So when we leave the input empty we will see this message.
Now we are going to interact with the username input, but we are not going to enter any value.
So what we will do is let's get the input first just going.
One of the previous tests just querying, just copying this query selector.
And by the way, we will also need to sign up here.
Sign up is the fixture native element, which is an email element.
So we are getting this username input.
Now in this field we will do like this, we will focus to it then and focus it.
So what we will do is username input.
We are going to dispatch an event and that event is new event focus.
Then we will focus from this.
This input.
And that is like Blur.
So we are going to the special Blur event.
So it's like we are focusing to the input then clicking somewhere else.
So what we are doing is basically similar to that one and in the end we will see an error message appeared
on the screen.
But since this is going to be updating the UI, first we need to call fixture detect changes, then
we are going to see an element containing this text username is required.
So for that element, again, we can use a test ID to get that element.
So something like this would be fine.
We are going to query it based on like this is going to be a div and in this div there will be this
data test ID and its value will be username validation.
So this is the let's say, validation element.
And in this validation element, we, we are going to check the text content of it.
So we expect this.
Foundation element text content to contain username is required, by the way, just like to test for
the visibility of the spinner or the sign up success message.
This is not going to be visible before the validation failure, so we should be querying the non-existence
of this element before we do anything.
So here we are expecting this sign up query selector to return null.
So it's not going to be in the page.
But after we do this, then we will see this element.
Let's open the karma window and saving this one.
Tests are running.
And here we see the tests for the validation is failing.
Now let's fix this.
We are going to fix this in the component in the form control part.
Here we have this username, which is a form control and we can pass the validators in this one.
We are just passing the initial value for it, but as a second parameter we can pass the validator options.
So having this and we can pass the data functions in array like here, we can set the validators coming
with Angular.
So validators is like coming from the angular forms and in this one we have this required.
So it is going to be doing the required validation for this username and we can get information about
the error on the component.
At the moment it's not going to fix anything, but let's, let's see what kind of message we see.
And for that we can do something like this in calibrations we can access to the form for form is this
one.
And from this form we can get the username like this form get username.
And in his username there is these errors.
This is this can mean also having this optional chain and we can use the pipe operator of Angular to
make sure this is going to be printed as JSON string.
Opening the application on browser.
Again, let's save this one.
So initially the username is empty.
Therefore this required validator is returning.
True.
But if I type anything here it is null.
Which means for the username we don't have errors.
So we are going to use this one right here in the template and we will check if there is errors.
We will display that error.
So let's do that after the input right here.
We can add another div.
This is the div we are querying in the test.
And let's set the test ID and this is the test ID.
Username visitation.
So this is going to be visible conditionally and the condition is.
If form get username.
Errors.
So if there are errors for this form control, then we will display this live and the message will be
the text content of this div will be this one.
Saving this one.
Now we are seeing the message right here.
It is visible, but it is immediately visible.
We didn't do anything about like focusing or blurring from this this input.
So we need to enhance this logic here.
So I'm just going to do like this.
So other than the errors, we have other properties coming with this form control and one of them is
tracking if this, this input is touched.
So like here, if I just.
Type touched property here.
Let's save it.
So it is initially false.
I am focusing to the input and focusing somewhere else and here it is returning true.
So this touched is set as true when this this specific form control is focused and unfocused.
So we can use that one as well here.
So if we have the errors.
And.
Form.
Form control is touched and we are going to display this message.
Now the error is gone.
And if we check the test console here, we see the test is passing and let's test it manually.
So here focusing to username, then clicking somewhere else and here we see the username is required,
message is visible.
Now let's add another validation case.
So other than not being now let's set some character limit for the username.
So just copying this test and pasting here and it's it displays let's change the message length error
when username is less than four characters.
So let's say this is the requirement for this username.
So we are checking again, this is an invitation not to be in the page.
Then we are going to set value for this time.
So we are going to say username, input and value is going to be let's say it's just going to be 1 to
3.
And now instead of.
Dispatching this focus, we can dispatch just this input event.
This is also doing the the focus as well.
So.
But to get this value being reflected in the form control, we use input events right here.
So we are setting value for the username.
It's three characters long which is invalid.
Then in the end we are going to see a message saying username must be at least four characters long.
So this is the message we are going to see.
And switching to the test console, saving this one.
So this is failing and let's fix it.
First one, we are going to add another validator.
So other than the required, this is an array of validator.
So the second validator is again, we are going to use the validators coming with the angular forms
for validators and the one we are looking for is min length and the length value will be four.
So saving it again is not going to fix the issue yet.
Now there are two different validations and we need to distinguish the error type here.
So let's try it on browser first.
So initially the username is failing with the required, but if you type anything here now the validation
is failing because of the mean length.
But the error we are seeing is still the username is required.
But if we.
Enter four characters don't.
Then the politicians is passing and the message is gone.
So you must be checking the failing type before showing the relevant error so we can do like this.
So at the moment we are in this div, we are not paying attention.
What kind of validation error this is.
We only care if there is an error and if this is touched.
So we can check the type of error like this.
We can wrap with another div for this username is required.
This is going to be visible only if form get username.
So we are accessing to the form control and from this one we can get the errors of it and we can get
the error type of it like this.
If it is required type of validation failure, then we are going to display this one.
And we can add the second validation type.
So if it's failing with the mean length, then the the message will be is your name must be at least
four characters long.
Just checking the test to make sure I don't do any typo here.
Like this.
I have a typo here.
This is going to be mean length like this.
Let's check the test console.
And here we see the tests are passing.
And if we test it manually on browser, if I type anything here, we don't see anything about the validation
errors.
But if I unfocused this one here we see the message is visible.
For the length case, we can enhance this error visibility.
So the error would be visible as soon as a user types like here.
If I type just a single character, that error can be visible immediately so that user knows how many
characters they need to enter.
And for that one, we can we can do like this.
This div the error part is visible only when there is errors and also when this is touched, which means
this this element must be unfocused.
But we can do like this.
This can be either touched or let's have this group in this parenthesis, or we can check this username.
They also have this dirty.
Property.
So this dirty means one user changes the value in this field.
The that form control is marked as dirty so this can be also be added to this logic.
So let's save this one and see how it is working.
So here the username is empty.
We do not focus it so there is no error messages about it.
But after I focus and type a single character which is failing with the validation, we are not unfocused.
So this is still not passing.
But because of this dirty control, we are showing the error right here.
So this is a bit better feedback about the errors for the users.
So we completed the validation at least initial part of the validation for the username.
And we will continue to do the the validation for the other fields as well.
At the moment we don't need this form properties to be printed right here.
So just removing that part and if we check the.
This console here we see all tests are passing.